Added blurb on Label Function Creation (#41)
greenelab/text_mined_hetnet_manuscript: content/03.methods.md

### Label Functions for Annotating Sentences

> The challenge of having too few ground truth annotations is common too many natural language processing settings, even when unannotated text is abundant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The challenge of having too few ground truth annotations is common to many natural language processing settings, even when unannotated text is abundant.
```

Data programming circumvents this issue by quickly annotating large datasets by using multiple noisy signals emitted by label functions [@arxiv:1605.07723].
Label functions are simple pythonic functions that emit: a positive label (1), a negative label (-1) or abstain from emitting a label (0).
We combine these functions using a generative model to output a single annotation, which is a consensus probability score bounded between 0 (low chance of mentioning a relationship) and 1 (high chance of mentioning a relationship).
We used these annotations to train a discriminator model that makes the final classification step.
Our label functions fall into three categories: databases, text patterns and domain heuristics.

#### Label Function Categories

> We provide examples for each category below. 

Reviewer: Give me a 2-3 sentence intro to the idea of what a label function category is and list the broad classes (the things you bolded below).

Each example pertains to the following candidate sentence: “[PTK6]{.gene_color} may be a novel therapeutic target for [pancreatic cancer]{.disease_color}.”

**Databases**: These label functions incorporate existing databases to generate a signal, as seen in distant supervision [@doi:10.3115/1690219.1690287].
These functions detect if a candidate sentence's co-mention pair is present in a given database.

> If the pair is present, our label function emits a positive label and abstain otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the pair is present, our label function emits a positive label and abstains otherwise.
```

$$ \Lambda_{DB}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 1 & (\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) \in DB \\
0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

$$ \Lambda_{\neg DB}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 -1 & (\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) \notin DB \\
0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

**Text Patterns**: These label functions are designed to use keywords and sentence context to generate a signal. 
For example, a label function could focus on the number of words between two mentions or focus on the grammatical structure of a sentence.
These functions emit a positive or negative label depending on the context.

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 1 & "target" \> \in Candidate \> Sentence \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 -1 & 	"VB" \> \notin pos\_tags(Candidate \> Sentence) \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

> **Domain Heuristics**: These label functions use the other experiment results to generate a signal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Domain Heuristics**: These label functions used results from published text-based analyses to generate a signal. 
```

We used dependency path cluster themes generated by Percha et al. [@tag:global_network].

> If a candidate sentence's dependency path belonged to a previously generated cluster, then the label function will emit a positive label and abstain otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a candidate sentence's dependency path belonged to a previously generated cluster, then the label function emitted a positive label and abstained otherwise.
```

$$
\Lambda_{DH}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = \begin{cases}
    1 & Candidate \> Sentence \in Cluster \> Theme\\
    0 & otherwise \\
    \end{cases}
$$

> Each label function was constructed via manual examination of sentences within the training set.

Reviewer: This follows from the most recent bold as domain heuristics, but I think it actually applies primarily to text patterns. Have you considered swapping the order of these two categories?

For example, in the candidate sentence above one would extract the keywords "novel thereapeutic target" and incorproate them in a text pattern label function.
After inital construction, we tested and augmented the label function using sentences in the tune set.

> We repeat the above process for each label function in our repertoire. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We repeated the above process for each label function in our repertoire. 
```

> Roughly half of our label functions are based on text patterns, while the others are distributed across the databases and domain heuristics (Table {@tbl:label-functions}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Roughly half of our label functions were based on text patterns, while the others were distributed across the databases and domain heuristics (Table {@tbl:label-functions}).
```

Reviewer: This might be the type of thing you could include in the few sentences at the top of this section (if you made it clear you were going to go into detail with each type below)

Label functions are simple pythonic functions that emit: a positive label (1), a negative label (-1) or abstain from emitting a label (0).
We combine these functions using a generative model to output a single annotation, which is a consensus probability score bounded between 0 (low chance of mentioning a relationship) and 1 (high chance of mentioning a relationship).
We used these annotations to train a discriminator model that makes the final classification step.

#### Label Function Categories

Label functions can be constructed in a multitude of ways; however,  many label functions share similar characteristics with one another.  
We group these characteristics into the following categories: databases, text patterns and domain heuristics.

> Majority of our label functions fall into the text pattern category, while the others were distributed across the databases and domain heuristics (Table {@tbl:label-functions}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of our label functions fall into the text pattern category, while the others were distributed across the database and domain heuristic categories (Table {@tbl:label-functions}).
```

> We describe each category and provide an example label function below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We describe each category and provide an example using the candidate sentence: "[PTK6]{.gene_color} may be a novel therapeutic target for [pancreatic cancer]{.disease_color}.".
```

> Each example pertains to the following candidate sentence: “[PTK6]{.gene_color} may be a novel therapeutic target for [pancreatic cancer]{.disease_color}.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

\end{cases} $$

**Domain Heuristics**: These label functions used results from published text-based analyses to generate a signal. 
We used dependency path cluster themes generated by Percha et al. [@tag:global_network].
If a candidate sentence's dependency path belonged to a previously generated cluster, then the label function emitted a positive label and abstained otherwise.

$$
\Lambda_{DH}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = \begin{cases}
    1 & Candidate \> Sentence \in Cluster \> Theme\\
    0 & otherwise \\
    \end{cases}
$$

**Text Patterns**: These label functions are designed to use keywords and sentence context to generate a signal. 
For example, a label function could focus on the number of words between two mentions or focus on the grammatical structure of a sentence.
These functions emit a positive or negative label depending on the context.

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 1 & "target" \> \in Candidate \> Sentence \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 -1 & 	"VB" \> \notin pos\_tags(Candidate \> Sentence) \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

> Each label function was constructed via manual examination of sentences within the training set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each text pattern label function was constructed by manual examination of sentences within the training set.
```
